Alhamdulillah.
My dear brothers and sisters, I hope you
are all keeping well. May Allah subhana
wa ta'ala bless you and keep you healthy
and safe and grant you all the best of
this life and the next.
May Allah subhana wa ta'ala impart upon
us beneficial knowledge and make us of
those that hear a statement and
implement the best of us uh best of it
and make us of those that continuously
increase in their beneficial
knowledge. My dear brothers and sisters,
I am currently in California right now
and um you know I I wanted to just share
a quick reflection with you. Subhan
Allah. I was fortunate to visit the uh
MSA, the Muslim Student Association of
Stanford University. And for those of
you that uh may not know, Stanford
University is one of the elite
universities in the world. And engaging
with some of these students was very
very phenomenal for me. Subhan Allah.
Because I felt that a lot of these
students, they had come from all over
the world. And because they're attending
this Ivy League school, they have the
potential to become the future leaders
of the Muslim Ummah and of the of the
world in general. And it was se
something very uh striking and uh I I
want to tell you a little bit about uh
this sister Dr. Amina Dwish may Allah
subhana wa tala protect her and bless
her. She's the chaplain at the
University of Stanford. And something
that really struck me uh in awe was that
when you give da to people, you truly
have the ability to shape the future. So
I kept thinking to myself that she has
this natural access to these students
that are going to be the future uh of
this um and the future of the world and
that comes with a lot of responsibility
and a lot of uh
power. And she had such a nice and
motherly nature to her that I thought to
myself, you know, Allahhana has chosen
her specifically to be here, Allahbar.
And I felt very very happy to know that
these Muslims that are on campus have
access to uh a female motherly uh
scholar uh and mentor uh amongst them
and that made me very very joyous. After
our discussion, I got to go uh back to
my hotel and just reflect on this and I
thought to myself how wonderfully this
ties in to our discussion today about
the youth that wanted to save their
faith and what Allahhana wa ta'ala did
for them. And that's where I wanted to
begin our discussion by sharing a sense
of gratitude for the faith that Allahh
has given us. Alhamdulillah. And then
also to share with you that you know
sometimes we can get very bogged down
with the world that we live in all the
negativity that's out there and think to
ourselves that the dark that the future
is very dark and gloomy and we don't
look at the bright spots that Allahhana
wa ta places in front of us the fact
that we're able to study our dean and
practice our dean and that there are
those that are practicing Muslims in
positions of of power and authority and
Allah subhana wa ta'ala will use them
for something good. We'll use them for
something good. So, let's get into our
discussion. Sorry, just one second. It's
asking me for
something.
Um, okay. I apologize. It's the first
time using this laptop. So,
um, let's see what I can do over here.
inshallah. I hope this
works. Okay.
[Music]
Um, so we have a bit of a challenge. So,
my dear brothers and sisters, I'm really
sorry, but it's asking me to restart my
browser for some reason if I want to
share that PowerPoint. And I'm not sure
what that's going to do to the uh
broadcast, but let's try something else
instead. Let's try this
instead. Actually, I don't think that's
going to work
either. So, my dear brothers and
sisters, I'm so sorry. I thought I had
everything set up because when I tried
it, it worked fine, but now it's not uh
seeming to work with me. So, kindly bear
with me. Uh if I log out, I will come
back very very shortly.
Are you able to see the PowerPoint right
now? For those of you that are there,
are you able to see the PowerPoint on my
screen or are you just seeing
me? No PowerPoint. Okay, let's try this
one more time.
Okay, it seems I need to restart. So,
please forgive me. I will be back very
very shortly inshallah.
Okay, let's try this one more
time.
Um, okay.
Um, may Allah subhanaa tala make this
easy.
[Music]
Um, yeah, I think that's what I might
need to do. Okay, let me try this one
more time. I'm so sorry about this, my
dear brothers and sisters. This uh is a
shortcoming on my
behalf. So, I'm going to try this one
more time. I'm going to try rebooting
the system and coming right back for
your patience.
Okay.
[Music]
Uh okay my dear brothers and sisters who
can see the PowerPoint screen now can
you see the PowerPoint?
Please tell me you
can.
Allahbar. Okay. Now we are at ayah
number nine.
Okay. Oh Allah make this easy for us. So
Allahhana wa ta'ala he says in this
verse and let's change the view to
slideshow let's get back to where we
were
okay he says in this
verse subhan
allahhana he says in this verse
So here Allahh says or have you thought
that the companions of the cave and alim
were among our signs a wonder mentioned
when the youths retreated to the cave
and said our lord grant us from yourself
mercy and prepare for us from our affair
right guidance. So now here Allah
subhana wa ta'ala from what it seems
apparent is addressing the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam that have you
oh Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
thought but even though the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam is
being addressed over here the truly
intended audience are the Quraysh the
truly intended audience are the Quraysh
how do we know this we know this from
the question that is being posed
obviously the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam did not believe
that the the young men from the cave are
a major sign with and of themselves but
rather it was the Quraysh that was
looking for this sign and thus Allahhana
wa tala is posing this question to them
so it's as if the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam is being told that oh
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam tell
these people that when you're asking
about this sign do you not think that
there are greater signs out there that
you have already disbelieved in that
even if I was to provide this sign for
All of a sudden it would make you
believe and this shows us uh quite a few
points over here. Uh so we'll break it
down the gener we'll break it down
generally first and then go into to it
specifically that number one faith is
not about the signs that you see. Subhan
Allah. People saw the sea split. People
saw the moon split. People have seen uh
various signs. They've seen babies speak
as soon as they're born. But that did
not cause them to believe. That did not
cause them to believe. Right? So it's
not about show me a sign and all of a
sudden I'll believe. But that's not how
faith works. And rather we believe that
Allah subhana t gives faith to whomever
he pleases. Whether they are exposed to
this science or not, Allahhana chooses
whomever he pleases uh for guidance. And
then we also understand from this that
greater than the sign of these young men
in the cave is the creation of the
heavens and the earth and how it's
sustained. You know, Subhan Allah. I
want you to think, how long could we do
something
consistently like clockwork? Could we do
the same thing every single day like
clockwork? And I want you to reflect
just on the on the sun itself, just the
presence of the sun. Every day for
billions of years, the sun rises and the
sun sets. There wasn't a day where the
sun said, you know what? I'm going to
take the day off today. There wasn't a
day where the sun said, you know what,
I'm going to be a little bit late or I'm
going to be a little bit early. Like
clockwork, per the second, subhan Allah,
the sun knows its role, appears and
disappears at its most accurate time. So
that with and of itself is a huge
miracle from Allah subhana wa tala. And
that is not a sign enough. I don't know
what else you're waiting for. If you
look at the human being and just the way
the eye functions in the way that it can
see an image and through light it is
processed and then neurons transferred
to our brain so our brain can understand
what is happening in in the world and
compute it literally in fractions of a
millisecond Allahbar like what could be
a greater sign than that you cannot tell
me that just by some random you know
occurrence
uh you know the the concept of eyesight
was created. You know, there's so much
uh so many greater miracles that are
unappreciated and underappreciated that
we take for granted. So much so that we
say that, you know, if we were to see a
sign, I would believe at that time.
That's not how it works. You have to
recognize the signs that are the signs
that are right in front of you before
you can appreciate these other signs.
Then Allahhana says the people of the
cave and we recognize why they're called
the people of the cave. And this is why
the surah is named because these young
men went to the cave. Now, this is where
things get very very interesting. This
was a question that was posed last week.
What does actually mean? What does Alim
actually mean? So, Alim means some sort
of tablet uh tablet and there are
multiple opinions as to where the name
uh came from. So, uh a group of scholars
have said and this is you know the class
opinion that we'll share.
is a tablet that was placed at the foot
of the entrance of the cave that spoke
about the story of the young men in the
cave that spoke about the story of the
young men in the cave. There are other
opinions that
mention is the name of the town that
they fled from, is the name of one of
their leaders, is the name of the dog,
is the name of the valley that they were
in. All of those opinions exist, but
Allah subhana wa ta'ala knows best. But
it seems uh was uh the tablet or a
tablet that was placed at their uh
entrance talking about their story.
Talking about their story. There was
also another opinion just before I
forget uh for the sake of class benefit
that uh was the name of a revelation
that was sent to the Christian nation.
It was the name of a revelation sent to
the Christian nation detailing more of
their laws. Detailing more of their
laws. So that was another one of the
opinions out
there meaning that it was from one of
our great and miraculous signs. So we've
discussed that already. Then Allah
subhana wa ta'ala goes on to tell us and
remember that remember when these young
men went to the cave and they raised
their hands and asked Allah subhana wa
ta'ala for mercy and for guidance of
their affairs for mercy and guidance of
their affairs. And this shows us that in
times of confusion the two greatest
things that you can ask for is for mercy
and for guidance. And this is something
that you should continuously ask
yourselves for particularly in this day
and age where we are going through a lot
of
ideological strife. And what I mean by
that is what was once true now seems to
be falsehood and what was falsehood now
seems to be portrayed as true. What were
constants are now becoming variables and
what are variables are now being treated
as constants. And there's just a lot of
confusion out there. So in these sort of
situations, the best thing that you can
ask for is to ask for Allahhana tala for
mercy and guidance. And remember, we're
tying this in to the existence of a dal.
And towards the end of time, the
appearance of a one should continue to
ask Allah subhana wa ta'ala for mercy
and for guidance. And so you understand
that this is just an introduction to the
story of uh the people of the cave. So
verse number nine is the general
introduction that there was this group
of young men that went to the cave. Now
Allah subhana wa ta'ala starts
documenting their journey as to how they
actually got there and what actually
happened. So as soon as these young men
got into the cave, they raised their
hands to Allah subhana wa ta'ala asking
Allah subhana wa ta'ala for mercy and
for guidance. Now when you look at verse
number 11 and 12, Allah subhana wa
ta'ala continues to tell us uh what
happens inside of the cave. But what we
want to look at is how did the young men
actually uh end up in the cave and where
is this cave situated? Where is this
cave situated? So the scholars have
differed in terms of the actual location
of the cave. Some have said it was a
part of the Roman Empire. Some have said
it was in Turkey uh in Jordan um and in
other places and in other
places he mentions that the location has
not been specified because it is
irrelevant to our belief of it. It is
irrelevant to our belief of it. The
story of the the people of the cave is
also documented in uh other traditions
in biblical traditions uh and it is
known as the story of Ephesus. the story
of Ephesus,
Ephesus. And you can find simil several
similarities between the biblical
tradition and the Quranic tradition. The
Quranic tradition goes into more detail
uh specifics detail goes into more
specific uh details. So that is uh who
they are. Now how did they actually get
there? Allah subhana wa ta'ala tells us
that um they were seven altogether.
There were seven altogether living at
this time and there was a tyrannical
ruler that had forced upon the people to
commit idolatry. And to give you further
context, this is happening between the
time of isam and Muhammad sallallahu
alaihi wasallam. This is happening
during the time of Alisam and Muhammad
sallallam. And during this time there
was this tyrannical ruler um that was
forcing the people to commit idolatry
that if they didn't commit idolatry then
he would kill them. He would kill them.
So when he did this he announced an
annual festival that would take place
where people would create idols with
their own hand and would come and would
worship them and would sacrifice for
them. So when this annual festival took
place, these young men who did not know
one another, they all showed up to this
festival and they all saw the horrible
things that were happening with shik
being committed with Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala with shik being committed with
Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala and this was
something that upset them and made and
left them very very unsettled and one by
one as they came to this they all uh
parted from this festival and went and
sat by this tree till subhan Allah all
seven of them ended up at this tree and
they were just sitting there and neither
of none of them had pre-planned this
none of them knew each other before yet
they show up and they start talking
about how did you end up here why are
you not at the festival and they all
share with one another that we felt
disgusted by this we felt disgusted by
this eventually the emperor finds out
and he summons them and know they're
about to be killed They're about to be
executed. But the emperor gives them one
last opportunity that take a few days to
think about this that if you're not
going to worship these idols, then I
will have you killed. Then I will have
you killed. And in the process of having
these few days, these young men come up
with a plan that in order to save our
lives, let us go to the cave. In order
to save our lives, let us go to this
cave. So they enter this cave and they
make dua to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
asking Allah subhana wa ta'ala for mercy
and for guidance asking Allah subhana wa
ta'ala for mercy and for guidance and
there's so many lessons you know just in
this portion subhan allah so why does
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala mention that
they are youth why does Allahh mention
that they are youth to emphasize the
fact there are many virtues of youth
from the virtues of youth are having
high levels higher levels of energy from
the virtues virtues of youth is that you
are more inquisitive. From the virtues
of youth that you are you have strength
from the virtues of youth is that you
are zealous. You have this zeal uh to do
things. So Allahhana wa ta is uh
praising um youth at this time. To give
you further context uh a person is
considered a shab meaning they're
considered a youth in Islam up until the
age of 40. And when you hit 40 uh it's
meant to be the prime or peak or you
have reached your peak of uh knowledge,
experience, life uh and wisdom at that
time in that s in the sense of that
after 40 it is assumed that you're not
going to live longer than another 40
years give or take a few years. And this
is why the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam also said that the majority of
my um will live between 60 to 70 years.
60 to 70 years you have lived the
majority of your life uh by that time.
So that is shab fitia is actually an age
range that can be understood from early
teens to like what the late 20s the late
20s that could be considered uh a time
of being a fata right so that would be
the time of being considered a fata. So
uh that is their approximate age range
at that time. And during this severe
time of hardship and calamity, what do
they do? They raise their hands to Allah
subhana wa tala. Which teaches us that
during times of hardship and calamity,
your natural reaction should be to reach
out to Allah subhana wa ta'ala. The very
first thing you do in hardship and
calamity is to reach out to Allah
subhanahu wa'ta'ala. So that is of the
utmost importance and paramount. And
this also shows us that in hardship and
calamity when you reach out to Allah
subhana wa tala Allah subhana wa ta will
always be there for you and Allahhana
will always be there for you and you may
think subhan Allah that your duas will
always be answered in the way that you
want but that's not the case and we
we'll come to see that uh in this
situation Allahhana caused them to sleep
you would think that the response to
their dua would be that you know the
whole town all of a sudden overnight
would become Muslim or you would think
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala would
perish that nation and only these young
men would stay alive that the other
people would be destroyed but no Allah
subhana wa ta'ala in his infinite
knowledge and his infinite wisdom
answers the duas in the ways that he
sees fit in the way that he sees fit. We
also learn from this is that your faith
will require that you make sacrifices.
These youth left behind their way of
life, their families and the only life
that they knew in order to save their
iman. And when you make sacrifices for
the sake of preserving your faith, Allah
subhana wa ta'ala will always protect
you. This shows us that there will
always be a disconnect between those
that are young and those that are old.
Sometimes you're able to reconcile
between those differences and sometimes
you aren't. try to reconcile and if
you're unable to then you have to do
what is best for your and you have to do
what is best for your and the youth made
their effort meaning that they parted
from their uh community and they made
dua at the same time. So you have to
take the physical and the spiritual
means you have to take the physical and
the spiritual means and when your
intention is pure Allahhana always
honors that pure intention. Now
Allahhana goes on to say
So we cast a cover of sleep over their
years within the cave for a number of
years. Then we awakened them that we
might show which of the two fractions
was most precise in calculating what
extent they had remained in time. So
here Allah subhana wa ta'ala he tells us
that he struck their ears and that's how
you would literally translate it. But
the striking of the years over here
um means to put them into a very very
deep slumber. He put them into a very
very deep slumber. That's what it
means for a number of years and we learn
that it is 309 years. for
39 years and then we made them uh awaken
so that you may know which of the two
fractions was closest in knowing in
calculating the amount of time that they
spent therein. So here Allah subhana wa
ta'ala is telling us several things. So
the response to the dua that they made
was that Allahhanaa put them to sleep
and that's such a a strange concept
isn't it? You ask Allah subhana wa t'ala
for mercy and guidance and Allah subhana
wa ta'ala gives you sleep. So we
recognize from this is that from the
acts of mercy that Allahhana tala has
given us is sleep and that is why if you
look at the battle of bedr Allah subhana
wa ta he tells us that he sent down his
sakina upon them meaning that he granted
them the ability to sleep. So sleep is a
mercy from Allah it is a form of
tranquility from Allah subhana wa t'ala
it is the way the body rejuvenates
itself. It is the way the body
rejuvenates itself. And here Allah
subhana wa ta'ala also used sleep as a
form of protection as a form of
protection. So now you may think subhan
Allah that you made dua to Allah subhana
wa ta'ala for doing well on a particular
exam and what if you woke up too late
you slept through the exam. If you had
tried your best and you had made your
and you asked for Allah subhana wa ta's
help and you took all the precautionary
measures of putting your alarm clock on
and doing all of those things and still
you did not know wake up then know that
this is a mercy from Allah subhana wa
ta'ala that you may not recognize right
now in the moment but in the overall
greater scheme of things it is a mercy
from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala then
Allah subhana wa ta'ala tells us that
there were groups of people that were
arguing and fighting as to how long they
had stayed in the cave. So this wasn't
known knowledge. The people did not have
general knowledge of this but rather
only through revelation could people
know how long they had stayed in the
cave. Only through revelation could
people know how long they had stayed in
the cave. And this is what Allah subhana
wa ta is teaching us over here that the
greatest form of knowledge is that which
you receive in revelation. There is
nothing truer. There's nothing that we
should be more certain about than that
which we know through revelation. And
that is why when you are looking for
certainty, always come back to
revelation from Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala. So he's telling us that there
are these two factions that argued
amongst themselves as to how long they
had stayed in the cave. So this could be
amongst the um young men themselves.
This could be amongst the young men and
the city or this could even be that in
the future different faiths will argue
how long they had stayed in the cave and
Allah subhana wa ta'ala now will answer
that very shortly. So we learn from this
that Allah subhana wa ta'ala protected
them through sleep and that to preserve
your iman and pastime without doing
anything walk just sleep u you know
these these notes uh don't uh always
reflect my uh opinion in the sense these
are class notes that we share different
opinions that have been mentioned by the
scholars of the past uh and
present. Now I would say you can do uh a
lot better things than just sleep. try
to keep busy in good deeds. But in that
sort of situation where if you're unable
to do good deeds and you um fear falling
into bad deeds then yes sleep is an all
is an alternative. And we actually see
this in the s of the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam when he was a young
shepherd and the people uh the other
shepherds were telling him about the
celebrations that were happening in
Mecca and he wanted to go and experience
uh those celebrations and potentially be
exposed to something. um not
appropriate. Allah subhana wa ta'ala
caused the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam as a young man to fall asleep
in the shade of the ka buta two nights
in a row and the shepherd told him
thereafter that perhaps you were not
created uh to partake in those
festivities right to partake in such
activities said the greatest thing to do
after doing good deeds is to sleep
because when you're sleeping you cannot
do anything wrong and also because of
the other virtues of sleep that we have
mentioned previously.
So now Allah subhana wa ta goes on to
say it is we who relate to you oh
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
their story in truth indeed they were
youth who believed in their lord and we
increased to them in guidance and we
made firm for uh we made firm their
hearts when they stood up and said our
Lord is the Lord of the heavens and the
earth never will we invoke besides him
any deity we would have certainly spoken
then an excessive transgression so here
Allahhana wa ta tells us that while
people were differing over how many
years they were in the cave not everyone
knew the truth there were exaggerated
versions of the story and there were
fabricated lies about the story. So you
can imagine the people at that time they
had fabricated lies about these young
men and you can imagine if there was
like modernday vernacular they would
have labeled them as terrorists would
have labeled them as extremists labeled
them as outcasts and people that were
creating discord in society and were
rebelling and were up to no good and
fabricating lies against them and then
you can also imagine over time what
happens to such stories. So as we know
other forms of revelation were changed.
Other forms of revelation were changed.
So here Allah subhana wa ta says we will
tell you and reveal unto you with truth.
So the first thing we look at is why
does Allah subhana wa ta'ala mention we
over here? Why is it not I will reveal
to you with truth. So the scholars
mentioned that there are different ways
of looking at this from them is that
Allah subhana wa ta'ala refers to
himself with the royal we the royal
majesty we and thus he refers to himself
in the plural and this is befitting of
Allah subhana wa ta'ala alone and no one
else. So we as human beings should not
refer ourselves uh in the plural because
this would be arrogant and this is not
something that is befitting for a
creation that is filled with
deficiencies. But one that is perfect in
every sense uh of existence is allowed
to use a plural royal uh majesty. Uh we
number two and this is the opinion of uh
some scholars and this is what I feel
comfortable with is that anytime Allah
subhana wa ta'ala uses the term we in
the Quran it is something that the
angels have a share in or another
creation of Allah has a share in it. But
then there are certain things that Allah
subhana wa ta'ala does not use the we
the plural we and those are things that
are only due for Allah subhana wa ta'ala
alone. So when Allah subhana wa ta uses
the term worship he uses worship me
meaning worship Allah alone and no one
else with him. But when he talks about
creation when he talks about revelation
you will find that Allah subhana wa
ta'ala uses the plural we over here
because angels have a share in that.
Angels have a share in that. So Jirel
received revelation gave it to Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam in terms of
creation. Allahhana tal uses the angels
to blow the inside of the body. So this
is a share in their creation and that's
why Allahhana wala uses the plural. Then
he says meaning to you oh Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam that
revelation is only given to the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam over here and
to no one else. So the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam was
specifically chosen to convey this
message. Neba is great news something of
great significance and great importance.
Right? So the one of the names of the
day of judgment is uh right in surah
number 78 um this is what Allah subhana
wa ta'ala tells us that the great of
judgment is the the day of judgment is
this great news. So here the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam is conveying
this great news and ending this dispute
that has taken place between faith and
scholars over time as to how long they
had stayed uh in that cave and what
their exact story
was meaning it is only truth there is no
exaggeration nor they are there any lies
surely they were a group of young men
who believed in their lord and Allah
subhana wa ta'ala increased to them in
guidance
Allah subhana wa ta'ala increased to
them in guidance and this shows us that
when a person is sincere and they take
the appropriate steps and they rely upon
Allah subhana wa ta'ala then Allah
subhana wa ta'ala will surely guide
their steps. Allahhana wa ta'ala will
surely guide their steps. Then Allahhana
goes on to say that we tied their
hearts. We tied their hearts, right? And
we made firm their hearts and then they
stood up and they said, "Our Lord is the
Lord of the heavens and the earth. Never
will we invoke besides him any deity."
So what is the context of this? So
remember when the emperor had gathered
them, they stood in front of him and you
can imagine that when you're standing in
front of an emperor that is known to be
a dictator and a tyrant and an
oppressor, what would happen to you at
that time? It is natural to see to be
fearful at that time but rather Allah
subhana wa ta'ala made them firm and
increased them in their guidance and
guided them in their ways so that they
would not be afraid but rather they
would be able to give dawa to this
tyrannical ruler. They would be give
able to give da to this tyrannical
ruler. So they said that our deities are
not those deities and idols that are not
those idols that everyone else is
worshiping but our lord is the lord of
the heavens and the earth and we will
never call anyone else be besides him
meaning we will never seek help from
anyone else. We will never believe that
anyone else is able to help us besides
him nor can anyone else protect us
besides him. And if we were to do that
then we would have spoken an excessive
transgression. An excessive
transgression. So he does these young
youth they don't want to say that you
guys are transgressors and are you know
saying lies but they say that if we were
to make such a statement then it would
have been an excessive transgression. So
this shows us from adab that when you're
trying to give daw to people you don't
want to offend them for their practices.
You don't mock their practices uh that
they are doing but you can talk about
the fallacy of the concept. You can talk
about the fallacy of the concept. So you
tell them who you are and then you speak
about the fallacy of the concept. So
these young men said that our lord is
the lord of the heavens and the earth
and we will never call anyone else
besides him. And if we were to do that
to do other than that then this would be
the excessive transgression. And this
also reflects the various levels of
jihad. The prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam he says that the highest level
of jihad is to speak a truthful word in
the face of a tyrannical ruler. I know
the word jihad has become a bit of a
taboo subject but it's very important
that as Muslims we understand what it is
so that you know extremists that do
exist do not take ownership of this word
when this word does belong uh to our
faith and it is a very beautiful
concept. It is the concept of struggling
for that which is right and struggling
for that which is true and always uh
hoping for the best uh outcome. Right?
So here the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam tells us that the highest form
of jihad is to speak the the a truthful
word in the face of a tyrannical ruler.
Meaning that when you have any fa uh
every reason to be afraid and every
reason not to speak the truth where one
could even possibly be considered
excused you still find it within of
yourself to speak the truth. That is the
highest form of jihad. Standing up for
that which is true. And you know in in
our current today and age we talk about
this concept of speaking truth to power.
These are references that show us that
this is what our dean is about. Speaking
truth to power. And these are example
examples that we uh draw inspiration
from when we are in similar situations
where we need to speak truth to power as
well. So let us look at some of the
notes. Allah uses the word when
referring to big news. It also refers to
news that no human being can find out
without Allah subhana wa tala informing
them. So as we mentioned like the day of
judgment it is referred to the big news
but also no one knows about it other
than Allah. So thus it is referred to as
they had good friends and believe
together and that is why Allahh
increased them in their iman. So groups
of people are more likely to support one
another uh in their endeavors than a
person that's doing this alone. And that
is why the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam uh had the support of his
companions and previous prophets were
meant to support some of them through
their relatives, some of them through
their disciples uh and through other
people as well. So the mission that has
many people is more likely to succeed as
opposed to the mission that just has an
individual there. We can't feel the
cementing and strengthening of our iman
until we move. So yes, you have to take
steps uh and go through life to see the
level of your iman that you're not if
you're not in situations where you're
being tested, then how will you know how
uh strong your iman actually is? And
once we use our limbs for Allah, Allah
will use the world to serve us,
Allahbar. That is a a beautiful concept,
you know. Subhan Allah. When you look at
uh the book The Alchemist,
um it's probably my my favorite non uh
it's probably my favorite fictional book
and uh there's this concept in it that
you know when you intend good the world
will conspire in your favor. Now from
the Islamic perspective when you intend
good and you do good and you try your
best and you rely upon Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala then Allah subhana wa ta'ala
will make things easy for you and make
the will make the world uh subservient
to you and this is what we come to see
that these young men they had tried
their best they had put their trust in
Allah subhana wa ta'ala and now we see
how Allah subhana wa t'ala makes the
creation subservient to
them now Allahh goes on to tell us
Allah subhana wa ta'ala goes on to tell
us that these our people have taken uh
besides him deities besides Allahhanaa.
Why do they not bring uh for their
worship any clear authority or proof and
who is more unjust than one who invents
about Allah? Allah. So Allah subhana wa
ta'ala tells us that these young men not
only uh are they telling the king about
who their lord is and about the
transgression of worshiping other than
Allah subhana wa ta'ala but now they go
a step further that if you're going to
make a claim why are you not bringing a
proof if you believe that these deities
can truly benefit you and can truly harm
you why are you not bringing any proof
of this and they say that our people
this is what they did yet they are not
bringing any proof to back up their
claim. And this is an Islamic concept
that when you make a claim, you have to
substantiate that when you make a claim,
you have to substantiate it. And thus,
you have to provide proofs that these
are actually lords. These are actually
lords that can benefit you and harm you.
But they are never able to bring those
proofs. Then they go on to say that who
is more
oppressive than he who fabricates a lie
against Allah subhana wa ta'ala. Meaning
that the greatest sin that can be
committed is to commit shik with Allah
subhana wa ta'ala. And these young men
knew it. These young men knew it. And
when you look at the dangers of shik,
subhan Allah, there are many many that
are are mentioned throughout the Quran.
How it renders deeds uh null and void.
how it opens up doors uh for other sins.
And what's also fascinating just tied to
that concept is that their people were
known to commit other sins. So there was
alcohol present, there was uh lwdness
that was present, there was fornication
that was present yet all of that is not
mentioned. Allah subhana t mentions only
the severest of their sins. So like even
murder was taking place, subhan Allah.
But Allahh only mentions the severest of
their sins which is to commit shik with
Allah subhana wa ta'ala which when that
with which once that door is open it
opens up the door for all other sins. It
opens up the door for all other sins. So
now what do these young men decide to
do?
So that one from amongst the group, he
goes on to say, "And when you have
withdrawn from them and that which they
worship other than Allah, retreat to the
cave. Your Lord will spread out for you
of his mercy and will prepare for you
from your affair facility." And this
shows us that every group will have
leaders and followers. And sometimes you
may not know that you were created for a
position of leadership yet Allah subhana
wa ta'ala naturally facilitates it for
you. And you know let's uh quote some
optimist prime over here that uh if you
remember optimist prime what does he
say? He says that fate rarely calls upon
the people at a time of their choosing.
And subhan Allah, when you look at this
quote that these young group of young
men, they're in this really difficult
situation. They're it's natural to be
afraid, natural to be a scared,
naturally natural to be scared, natural
not wanting to to sacrifice because you
don't know what the future holds. Yet
this leader from amongst them stood up
and told them that let us all go to the
cave and because we're only worshiping
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, Allah
subhanana wa ta'ala will send upon us
his mercy and will make our affairs easy
for us. Just learn to trust in Allah.
And this shows us that leadership
requires a level of certainty.
Leadership requires a level of
certainty. Allahh, he tells us
in about the leaders from
Bani that from the leaders of Bani is
Allahhana wa ta'ala emphasizes two
characteristics from among them.
patience and certainty. And when you
have patience and you have certainty,
these are the greatest characteristics
of leadership that Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala mentions and points out. And this
is what we see over here that this
leader, he's certain that Allahhana wa
ta'ala will descend his mercy upon us
and will make things easy for us. But he
also is patient in dealing with their
fear, in dealing with, you know, any
anxiety that they have. And he's
consoling them that look just be patient
and Allah subhana wa ta'ala will take
care of all of this. And he's dealing
with it in a very patient manner. So he
says look let us all retreat to the cave
and as we're only worshiping Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala Allah subhana wa
ta'ala will descend his mercy upon us
and make things easy for us. And this is
also a lesson that you have to remind
yourself of the good deeds that you are
doing. And what I mean by this is that
if you look at the incident of
revelation that took place with the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam when
he goes
to and he says cover me up cover me up
and he fears for himself at that time
what
does tell him that you are a good man
you keep good ties of kinship you look
after the orphans you know you uh do not
partake in oppression and do things that
are wrong so here she's consoling him
through the good deeds that that you do
and here this leader is also reminding
his uh I guess congregants that you are
worshiping only Allah subhana wa ta'ala
and you haven't done anything wrong so
surely Allah subhana wa ta'ala will take
care of you and this is from time to
time you have to do a self analysis that
when you doubt you know are things going
to work out you have to look at yourself
have you been doing good if you are put
your trust in Allah and Allah subhana wa
ta'ala will make things easy but if
you've done wrong and you've made
mistakes and you've committed sins,
repent to Allah and get back to that
state and then Allah subhana wa ta'ala
will guide you and make things easy for
you and descend his mercy upon you. So
our relationship with Allah is protected
and preserved when we are with a group
but it grows even more when we have uh
alone time with him. Meaning that we're
isolated from the people of disobedience
and those that are uh spreading
falsehood. Our personal growth with
Allah is what strengthens our ability to
give dawa. So you have to put yourself
in situations where you're out of your
comfort zone so that you can grow. And
then the root letters of are from which
means ease and gentleness. And this is
what the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam tells us that gentleness is not
instilled in anything except that it
beautifies it and it is not extracted
from anything except that it makes it
ugly. One of the names of a close friend
is Rafik, right? Uh if you remember, I
think it's Lion King where the monkey is
called Rafiki, right? Uh so actually
means that companion that is gentle with
you. That companion that is gentle with
you. So Allah facilitated for them to
protect their iman in a way that was
easy for them. The word means friend,
meaning Allah facilitated their affair
of protecting your iman while keeping
the friends together. And this is a
moment of reflection that when you look
at your own friends, what are the ties
that bind? What is it that makes you
friends? Is it common interests like
sports, fashion, things that you watch,
things that you listen to? Or is it
about values and world views? Here Allah
subhana wa ta'ala praises those
companions that have commonalities in uh
ethics, morals, and world views. And
those are the ones that will truly be
your friends and will look after your
best interests. Whereas for those other
things like sports uh and fashion and
things that we watch and listen to, once
those are taken away, the friendship
disappears as well. The friendship
disappears as well. Then Allah subhana t
goes on to
say,
for Allahhana ta goes on to say, "And
had you been present, you would have
seen the sun when it rose inclining away
from their cave on the right and when it
set passing away from them on the left
while they were laying within an open
space thereof. of that was from the
signs of Allah. He whom Allah guides is
the rightly guided but he whom he leaves
astray, never will you find for him a
protecting guide. So here Allah subhana
t now starts talking about the
miraculous nature of these young men
being in the cave. So they have now gone
to the cave. They have now fallen asleep
and now the sun is rising and is
setting. Yet Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protected them in such a way that the
sunlight would not directly harm them.
And you can imagine when sunlight
directly comes into a space, it heats up
the space and it dries it up. But in
order for human beings to stay in such a
space, there needs to be some sort of
moisture and the temperature needs to be
relatively cool so that you can stay
asleep. Right? So had it got to the sun
been exposed uh to them their clothes
would have withered away their bodies
would have withered away the mo the
moisture in the room would have
disappeared and um obviously would they
would not have been able to stay asleep.
So Allah subhana wa ta'ala protected
them from the sun. So he's speaking
about a miracle that took place but no
one was there to witness it. No one saw
that. So how do we know this? Only
through revelation. Only through
revelation. And this is, you know, those
intimate details that Allah subhana wa
ta'ala is telling us about these young
men in the cave that we could only know
through revelation. There's no other way
that we could know about it. And this
also answers a very fundamental question
that a lot of us may wonder. Okay, how
did they actually survive in the cave?
Right? Well, Allahhana wa ta'ala tells
us that it was very spacious and tells
us that he protected them from the sun
and this uh you know protection from the
sun was a miracle with and of itself
because if you look at it when you're at
the opening of a cave and you were still
getting some sort of light but it's not
coming in directly it's as if Allahhana
had created some sort of shield or
barrier to protect it from to protect
them from the light or even altered the
uh presence of the sun in some way so
that it wouldn't directly harm them. So
it won't directly harm
them. That is from the signs of Allah
subhana wa ta'ala. And it's interesting
how Allahh didn't say and this is the
sign from Allah subhana wa ta'ala but he
says this is from one of the many signs
of Allah subhana wa ta'ala. So again
this emphasis on look at the signs that
are already around you. Pay attention to
them. Those are the things that will
increase your iman. But if you're only
looking for iman in these major signs
that you specifically want from Allah
subhana wa ta'ala, that is the wrong
approach to have. That is the wrong
approach to have. Then Allah subhana wa
ta'ala concludes this verse by saying
that whoever Allahhana tala guides then
they are guided and whoever Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala allows to stray.
They will never find a protector to
guide them. Why is this so important?
Because if you remember at the beginning
of the surah, we are told about the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam that
he was on the verge of destroying
himself due to the level of care that he
uh due to the level of concern rather
that he was showing to the Quraysh in
them wanting to be guided in them
wanting to be guided that he was on the
verge of harming himself. So here Allahh
is consoling the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam that guidance is only in
the hands of Allah. You just have to
convey. And if people aren't guided,
then this is a result of their own
actions. This is a result of their own
actions. And this is something that's
very important to understand that
guidance from a human perspective starts
with being sincere and searching. Being
sincere and searching. And an individual
who is sincere and is searching for the
truth. Allah subhana wa ta'ala will
surely guide them. Allah subhana wa
ta'ala will surely guide them. But an
individual that has not received
guidance yet and they're not actively
pursuing the search of guidance nor are
they sincere, then this person will not
receive guidance. Then this person will
not receive guidance. And this also
applies to the individual that has
guidance but doesn't appreciate it and
does not protect it and does not take an
effort to protect or to build upon it.
Then it is feared that that guidance
will be taken away from them. And this
is why the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam teaches us to
say that oh Allah turner of the hearts
turn my heart towards your faith. And we
also learn another version of this
dua that oh Allah turner of the hearts
turn my heart towards your obedience.
Turn my heart towards your obedience. So
you have to be making such duas. You
have to be taking those steps to protect
your guidance. You have to be taking
those steps that you show your
appreciation for the guidance that Allah
subhana wa ta'ala has given you. And if
you don't do that then it is feared that
it is taken away. And then Allahh says
that those people that have gone astray
there is no guide that can guide them.
There is no protecting guide that can
guide them. That mean that it is only in
the hands of Allah. it is only in the
hands of Allah for guidance um to be
given and no one else gets to make that
decision. Um and just to further
emphasize that point the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam is
told that you Muhammad sallallahu alaihi
wasallam cannot guide those whom you
love but Allah subhana wa tala guides
those whom he pleases. So Allah subhana
wa ta made things easy for these uh
group of young men in four ways. The
first way is that the sun gave them just
enough life uh light to keep them alive
and it changed its course for them as we
spoke about. And when we become
subservient to Allah's commands, the
rest of the world becomes subservient to
us. We've spoken this briefly already.
Then Allahhana goes on to tell us
Allahh goes on to say, "And you would
think them awake while they were asleep,
and we turned them to the right and to
the left while their dog stretched his
four legs at the entrance. If you had
looked at them, you would have turned uh
uh from them in flight and been filled
with by them with terror. So here Allah
subhana wa ta'ala goes on to say that
you would think if you looked at them
that they were awake but in reality they
were asleep and we were turning them
right and left. So Allahh is now further
answering the inquiry that may be taking
place. How exactly did these young men
survive that Allah subhana t is turning
them to the right and turning them to
the left meaning that had their bodies
stayed in one place they would have
decayed right their body would have
decayed and would have become bruised
because it's staying in one position but
the fact that Allahh guided them to turn
over left and right and you would assume
that they were awake because they're
doing this and some of the the also
mentioned that these young men uh while
they were asleep It looked as if their
eyes were open. It looked as if their
eyes were open. So people um you know
would have been uh afraid to uh approach
them. So we see why people wouldn't
approach them and also that uh they were
turning right and left that also made
them seem awake and that is how their
bodies were preserved uh from bruising
from
bruising that their dog had uh its legs
spread out. their dog had its legs
spread out. Now what we learn from this
portion is that number one we talk about
the the rulings on on having a dog in
Islam. The prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam tells us that whoever keeps a
dog without reason will use will lose
the reward uh of a kat and kat in other
hadith we've told is reward the size of
mount. Now are there exceptions to this
rule? Yes, 100%. So, if a person is
blind and they need help uh through a
blind uh dog to help them uh so sight
dog to help them, this is allowed. If a
person has a farm and their farm or
their property needs protection and this
is the uh the way that you protect your
property uh and your animals, then this
is something uh that is allowed as well.
Now what's of interest of our times and
just to go on a quick tangent, how about
emotional support dogs? How about
emotional support dogs? Um there's a
scholar by the name of Hatim Haj. He is
a scholar of the Sharia and he's also a
medical doctor as well. And he said that
if it can be uh explained that there's
no other way to get the support that you
need uh in your life other than through
this relationship. So perhaps you have
no friends, you have no family, you have
nothing else. But uh the only way to get
that comfort and uh socialization and
you know relationship that uh human
beings need to survive is through this
emotional support dog then that is
something that could be considered. That
is something that could be uh
considered. So the general rule is that
we as Muslims would not keep dogs uh
except with uh justification. And then
in those situations where you do keep a
dog, you try your best to keep it
outside of the house and not in your
house. And if it's a situation where you
can't keep it outside of the house for
various reasons, uh perhaps it's
extremely cold or something of that
nature, then you want to make sure that
its saliva does not touch you. uh you
want to make sure that its hair does not
get uh onto places that you pray and
worship Allah subhana wa ta'ala and you
keep those areas uh pure and clean. Now
let's get into why did Allah subhana wa
ta'ala mention the dog over here. uh
Iban Ayah and Im Kabi two famous
scholars of they both mention that Allah
subhana wa ta'ala shows us the virtue of
righteous companionship on how the dog
of itself uh isn't righteous and he just
belonged to one of the young men yet due
to being in the company of the righteous
Allah subhana wa ta'ala mentions the dog
and this is
what expands upon that if this is the
case of a dog who keeps in the company
of the righteous and Allah subhana wa ta
praises this
Then how praiseworthy is the human being
that chooses to stay in the company of
the righteous? And that is why we should
always seek out the company of the
righteous. If you have scholars amongst
you, try your best to spend time with
them. If scholars visit you, try your
best to go and learn from them and keep
their company. That is one of the best
things that you can do. So this dog too
was asleep and stayed at the uh front of
the cave with its legs um you know
spread out meaning that if anyone tried
to enter the cave they would be afraid
to come close to this dog that it would
wake up and would attack them that it
would wake up and attack them. Then
Allahhana wa ta'ala speaks uh about
their appearance that their appearance
looks scary and this is what I mentioned
that while they were sleeping it seemed
that their eyes were awake and also that
they were moving around but other things
that are mentioned that you can imagine
um if you're sleeping in a cave for like
300 years your body will also start to
change so if you think about like
castaway remember uh uh Tom Hanks in
Castaway he grows this very long beard
very long hair and uh his appearance
looks dish almost scary. You can imagine
something possibly like that not to say
that's exactly what happened but
something possibly like that um is what
took place with him is what took place
uh with them. So the second way that
Allah subhana wa ta helped these young
men is that Allahhana made things easy
by making them look like they were awake
and either their eyes were open or from
far away they looked awake means that
they were completely knocked out not
like gnome. So gnome is that you're
asleep and something will wake you up,
right? But means that you're in a deep
slumber. The third way is that Allah
subhana wa ta'ala moved them from side
to side and this was to protect their
body from decaying or being eaten by the
earth. And the fourth way is that their
dog stretched out at the mouth of the
cave. The dog is virtuous because it is
associated with the people of iman. And
the moment we associate ourselves with
people of iman, then we too become
people of virtue. And then Allah subhana
wa ta'ala talks about when they wake up.
Talks about when they wake up. So let us
just take the verse where Allahhana
says,
become that Allah subhana t goes on to
say and similarly we awakened them that
they might question one another said a
speaker from amongst them how long have
you remained here they said we have
remained a day or part of a day they
said, "Your Lord is most knowing of how
long you remained. So send one of you
with this silver coin of yours in the
city and let him look to which is the
best of food and bring you provision
from it and let him be cautious and let
no one be aware of
you. This is where we will pick up next
week. This is where we will pick up next
week that now that they finally wake up,
what's transpired in these 309 years
that we will find out about." And this
also goes back to the concept of
remember two groups were asking one
another how long they stayed. This is
one of the opinions that they're asking
one another how long they stayed and
inshallah we will discuss this in our
next
session. May Allah subhana wa ta'ala
grant us life and
um okay let's stop
sharing actually no where is the okay
let's try that there we go alhamdulillah
alhamdulillah
alhamdulillah okay so now uh let's go to
your questions comments and so on and so
forth
um
Okay. Uh okay. So there we go. Let's go
back. She uh we can find all PowerPoint
slides in our student portal. Yes, that
is very true. So the PowerPoint slides
are in your student portal. Uh
apologies. Um okay, no worries. Please
uh tell Muhammad uh I say salams to him
as well. Uh sister, what did the young
men do when they entered the cave? Did
they ask for Allah's mercy? Yes, they
asked Allahhana wa ta'ala. uh for his
mercy. They asked Allah subhana wa tala
for his
mercy. Um they were in the cave for 309
years.
Yes. Why is the word jihad taboo? Well,
that's uh what's happened in in media.
It's been stigmatized that they've
equated jihad with terrorism. But from
our faith perspective, jihad and
terrorism are two completely different
things. Subhan Allah. You know,
terrorism is haram. uh harming people is
haram. Um and it is not terrorism at
all. But jihad is about you know
struggling for that which is right and
struggling for that which is better in
in serving our parents. The prophetam
says that go and perform your jihad in
taking care of your parents. Speaking
the truthful word in the face of a
tyrannical ruler is a form of jihad.
Um, so all of that uh is there. Oh,
subhan Allah. The slides weren't
changing. I'm so
sorry. I'm really sorry today uh about
the PowerPoint presentation. You know,
on my screen it was changing. So I'm not
sure why it wasn't uh changing for you.
Please forgive me for that. Next
week I will try to do multiple test runs
to make sure that the slides change.
Please please forgive me for that. Um
okay. Okay. So the duas I think someone
shared them later
on and that is
um that oh Allah turn of the hearts turn
my heart to your religion and oh Allah
turner of the hearts um you know turn my
heart to your
obedience. The fourth way was that their
dog was stretched out at the mouth of
the cave. The dog is virtuous because it
was associated. Uh yes. So that's from
the notes itself. Uh thank you for
sharing the
duas. Diabetic alert dog they save so
many lives. Yes. So anything that would
is considered a necessity then yes that
is something that could be considered.
That is something that could be
considered. Uh
um
okay. All the gems. Thank you so much.
Okay, I appreciate you referencing the
optimist prime and the castway.
Alhamdulillah, I'm glad you appreciated
it and um I'm glad you have the
alchemist as well. Alhamdulillah. So
yeah, if you get a chance to read it,
you know, maybe that will you can uh
relate to what was mentioned. Okay, so
now let's go to the actual questions. Uh
it was an open cave. How was it that no
one saw them? Was there a veil there? uh
yes it was an open cave and uh it is
possible that people did see them and in
fact that's what Allahh says that if you
were to see them you would have been
scared so by their appearance and also
by the fact that the dog was there also
by the fact that the dog was there so
it's not that no one saw them but people
were afraid uh because they looked awake
because their appearance uh was not
friendly and also because the dog was
there also because the dog was there now
is there a possibility that there was a
veil there yes that is a possibility as
well. We see this happen in the s in the
cave
of where the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam there with Abu Bakr that a veil
was placed over the eyes of the people
so that they could not see them. That is
a possibility but from the apparent uh
text that is in front of us. It seems
that there were other reasons uh why
they couldn't see them. It is difficult
for many sisters to be in the company of
scholars especially since most of them
are men. What do you suggest as sisters
do in place of this especially when we
have questions or wish to be a part of
their
discussions? This is a great question.
This is a great great question. So let's
try to explore this from many many
angles. Number one is that we have to
encourage our sisters to become scholars
and to become learned so that they can
have their own gatherings. That is
number one. Number two, the scholars
that are there need to accommodate to
the needs of the sisters. The prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam used to spend
one day of the week with the women in
the community to educate them and to
answer their questions so that they can
learn so that they can learn and it
shows us that every community leader um
should also be spending time with uh
sisters to educate them. Um, one of the
things I would like to do may Allahh
grant me and all of you is to do this
class called 40 hadith for her where we
talk about 40 different hadith that are
addressing women or that are specific
and exclusive uh to women uh from the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam. This
is a great way to educate our women on
this uh topic. So uh that's something to
to think about if you're interested then
inshallah maybe we can do that through
maybe we can do that
through so now um the scholars have that
responsibility to make time uh for the
sisters and then number three is
creating inclusive spaces right like the
masid is meant to be an exclusive
inclusive space that at the time of the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam we
saw that the masid had no barriers
between the men and the women yet there
were protocols was in place that the
women uh would enter last and exit first
uh and that they would delay in going
down uh into um sorry they would go down
into uh and s the first and uh get up
later. So all these protocols were in
place because there's no barrier in
between. Um and this would also allow
them to hear from a distance the
conversations that are happening from
the conversations that are happening. So
that that mass need to be uh inclusive
spaces and everyone needs to be included
in discussions that are taking place. So
those are some thoughts that I have on
that and Allah knows best. Did their
families end up looking for them? Allah
knows best. I'm not aware of any text
that talks about their family uh looking
for them. Can you explain uh verse
number 12 again? Let's go back to verse
number 12 where Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala says um
that Allahhana tala is talking about two
groups of people that uh differed
amongst themselves as to how long the
people in the cape stayed. Now who are
these two two groups of people? We are
not really told who they are but
Allahhana tells us from his infinite
knowledge and wisdom that there were two
groups of people that were differing
amongst themselves. So some of the
scholars said that it is the inhabitants
of the cave itself. Some of the scholars
said that it was the inhabitants of the
cave and the people of the town who will
get reexposed to once they uh reappear
in the town. And then others have
mentioned that this is amongst different
faiths that you know the uh Christian
faith said that they stayed for this
long, Jewish faith said that they stayed
for this long and then Allah subhana wa
tala comes down to explain how long they
actually stayed in the cave to make
clear that this is ultimate knowledge
and truth only from Allah subhana wa
ta'ala. Why aren't the slides changing
on the screen? I'm so sorry. This was a
shortcoming um from my computer. I'm not
sure why that didn't happen. Please
forgive me and may Allah forgive us
all. Were they before isam? No, this
they were
between and Muhammad sallallahu alaihi
wasallam. What is the position of the
Maliki school with regards to keeping a
dog in the house? from uh the limited
knowledge that they have about the
Maliki school of thought it did allow
keeping the dog uh in the house uh or
actually not so much so keeping the dog
in the house but did not consider it
nudges did not consider it nudges in a
sense that it's the hair was not nudges
nor was the saliva nudes nor was the
hair nudges nor was the saliva nudes but
in terms of keeping it in the house then
that is a separate discussion and that
is a separate discussion but what I
would suggest is that anytime we have a
mudhub specific question we always go to
the specialists in that mub. We always
go to the specialists in that mub and
Allah subhana t knows best. If this
happened between Isaam's time Muhammad
wasam how was it in revelation uh before
Quran? How is it in revelation before
Quran? That is um a great question to
ask. That is a great question to ask. As
we know uh the gospels that were written
down in Christian tradition were
actually written down after the time of
Isaam. They were written down after the
time of
isam. And then this story uh it is also
possible that it took place between uh
before the time of isam but a lot of the
scholars mention that it took place
between Isaam and Muhammad sallallahu
alaihi wasallam. So these are the
opinions that are there. She can you
clarify the connection of righteous
company uh companions and the dog didn't
fully grasp that that if you look at the
the role of the dog in the story it's
almost insignificant like he was a dog
that one of the companions of the cave
had why would Allah subhana wa ta
mention this dog sobby and imi they
mentioned that the reason why this dog
is given the significance of being
mentioned is due to the fact that it
kept the company of the righteous these
young righteous men and thus it became
worthy of being mentioned. Right? If you
look at the beginning of surah number
76, Allahhana he tells
us that was not upon mankind a time
where he's not worthy of being
mentioned. Meaning so what is it that
makes people worthy of being mentioned?
So the dog would of itself has not done
something significant that makes it
worthy of being mentioned other than the
fact that it kept the company of the
righteous and thus Allah subhana wa
ta'ala made it worthy of being
mentioned. Made it worthy of being
mentioned. How many years was it between
prophet Isaam and Muhammad sallallahu
alaihi wasallam? Approximately 600 and
some odd years. Approximately 600 and
some odd years. And Allah subhana wa
ta'ala knows best. Um
um okay so we have quite a few other
comments in
um who was inshallah that's coming up we
have a a whole story on coming up so
we'll discuss in detail
um okay I don't know you but it's as if
my soul was near yours before and we
were given the test of humanity
You know the prophet wasallam he tells
us that souls are like conscripted
soldiers. Those that knew each other
before uh have natural affinity in this
life and those that you know differed uh
in this in the realm of the souls they
differ now as well. Is it true that went
to the souk to buy things where the
currency was owed? That's coming to
know. We're going to come to know that
very soon in next week's class we will
do that. who is we have uh a whole
series of of sessions coming on that.
I'm really glad you would appreciate
that class. So inshallah when they do
the survey ask them that you want the 40
for the night.